# Beyond-the-Helix
Repository as part of UCC's MSc Bioinformatics and Computational Biology

## Guide to this repository

**Code Used** contains the two python notebook files on which the analysis was performed as well at the R file used to further analyse and visualise the data

**Joint Images for Thesis** contains the images used in the final thesis.

**Raw CSV Results** contains the raw csv files generated by using code from the two python notebook files. This is the data that was used to generate results and further analysed in R.

**Run Accessions.xlsx** contains all the run accessions from the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA). These are all the runs/data sets that were used in the final project. Keep in mind that some runs found in Raw CSV Results were not used in the final project, only this file shows what has been used.

## Using the code

The Numpy and Pandas packages are required to run the python files. Tidyverse and ggplot2 packages are required to run the .rmd file. 

Before running the entirety of the python notebook files, keep in mind examples are still left in, of which the files are not included, but can be accquired from the ENA. 

For the sequencing error analysis, found in **Thesis_EA_Github.ipynb**, the three main functions are *avg_qscore_analysis*, *indel_substitution_analysis* and *homopolymer_length_analysis*. Examples of how these were used are also present in the file.

For encoding/decoding analysis, found in **Thesis_Encodings_Github.ipynb**, the main functions are *sequence_analysis*, which analyses the composition of the sequence, *error_simulator* or *error_simulator_multiple*, which simulates errors in a sequence or number of sequences.

Important note: In error simulator, the error rates are ordered as transition, transversion, insertion, deletion.
If using gc weights, it should be a dictionary e.g {0.05: [0.1,0.1,0.2,0.2], 0.07: [0.5,0.5,0.1,0.1]). If a specific GC is not in that dictionary, the flat error rate will be used.
GC weight is optional.
